

#### *21st September 2023*


## Attendees

| |
| --- |
|China Mobile: Hanbai Wang, Bao Yuhan|
|China Telecom: Dan Xu|
|Erisson: Jan Friman|
|GSMA: Mark Cornall|
|KDDI: Toshi Wakayama|
|Orange: Ludovic Robert|
|Singtel: Foo Ming Hui|
|Telefónica: Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Pedro Jose Gutiérrez|
|TMUS: Murat Karabulut|
|Vodafone: Eric Murray, Kevin Smith|
|Verizon: Mahesh Chapalamadugu|

## Agenda


- Discussion
    - Existing API proposals (status review)
	- New issues: [#307](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/307), [#309](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/309)
- AoB
- Review of Action Points
- Q&A





## Discussion

| **Agenda  Item**  |  Owner| Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** | | Results from TSC meeting held on 7th Sept:<br> -  **Approved APIs**: Click to Dial, WebRTC, KYC Match, KYC Fill-in. Two KYC related APIs to be allocated into one single SubProject. It was requested for API supporters to nominate maintainers to set up Sub-Projects. <br>- **Not Approved APIs**: S2C VPN. It was requested for China Telecom to clarify  to clarify the API scope with current work done by AT&T at TMF Catalyst, and check whether AT&T could be a supporter of the API. </br><br> Actions were defined and monitored over the last two weeks. </br><br>China Telecom became supporter for Click-to-Dial, KYC Fill-in and KYC Match ([#304](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/304/files)). Maintainer name also provided. | 
| **Current issues** |  |  |
| [#217](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/217)  | China Mobile| **New API proposal: Click to Dial** </br> Updates: </br> - AP 20230907-06 closed, so the issue can be closed.|
| [#266](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/266)  | KDDI| **New API proposal: KYC Match**</br> Updates: <br> - AP 20230907-08 closed, so the issue can be closed. |
| [#267](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/267)  | KDDI| **New API proposal: KYC Fill-in**</br> Updates: <br> - AP 20230907-07 closed, so the issue can be closed. | 
| [#271](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/271)  | China Telecom, Huawei| **New API proposal: Site to cloud (S2C) VPN**</br> Updates: </br> - Ongoing discussion between China Telecom, Huawei and TSC chair. API supporters did their best to address TSC concerns. </br> - The API voting has been included in the agenda of TSC meeting on 20th Sept. </br> - AP 20230907-05 still open, so the issue cannot be closed. |
| [#284](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/284) | MTN | **New API proposal: Device Swap**</br> Updates: </br> - API voting not included in the agenda for TSC meeting on 20th Sept, so MTN is encouraged to take it for approval for next TSC meeting (5th October).  </br>  - AP 20230907-01 still open, so the issue cannot be closed. Deadline extended to 28th Sept.|
| [#285](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/285) | MTN | **New API proposal: IMEI Fraud**</br> Updates: <br> - Vonage has proposed changes. MTN needs to review and approve them, if agreeable. <br> - API voting not included in the agenda for TSC meeting on 20th Sept, so MTN is encouraged to take it for approval for next TSC meeting (5th October).   </br>  - AP 20230907-02 still open, so the issue cannot be closed. Deadline extended to 28th Sept. |
| [#279](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/279) | TEF| **New API proposal: WebRTC** <br> Updates: <br> - AP 20230907-10 closed, so the issue can be closed. |
| [#294](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/294) | Verizon| **New API proposal: Network Insights** <br> Updates: <br> - Verizon provided missing information on technical viability. Clarifications requested by Huawei and Telefónica. Verizon should provide clarifications.</br> During the meeting, further comments came in. </br>- VODAFONE: noted that the scope for this API is still a bit too "open ended". Though it is understandable that that the performance metrics themselves may have to be obtained from proprietary systems, the concern is that this could mean that the way in which a particular metric is calculated (e.g. jitter) or is presented differs between implementations. That would reduce the value of a "standardised" API if the metrics themselves and their formats were not standardised. </br> - TELEFONICA: downscoping the original ambition of this API could address Vodafone's concerns? </br> - VODAFONE: suggests linking the performance measurements to monitoring parameters already considered in other sub-projects, such as QoD. Further details will be posted in the issue thread.</br> - AP 20230907-04 still open, so the issue cannot be closed.  |
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| **New issues** |  | |
| [#307](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/307) | DT| **Proposals to simplify the table BacklogAPI.md** <br>Updates: <br> - The issue was summarized. First comments already posted in the thread. It seems this issue cannot be only solved by API Backlog WG itself -- it may require assistance from TSC as well. <br> - Rest of participants are encouraged to also post their comments and thoughts.|
| [#309](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/309) | DT| **API Proposal Template - new location** <br>Updates: <br> - The issue was summarized <br> - TEF will take action accordingly (AP 20230921-01).|



## AoB

**Next TSC meeting to be held on 5th October**
- API owners of not-yet-approved APIs are encouraged to declare whether they want to take their individual API proposals for decision <em>before 28th Sept</em> (AP 20230907-01, 20230907-02, 20230907-04).
- Companies that verbally declared their willingness to become supporters of some APIs need to submit PR to the backlog table (AP 20230907-03, 20230907-05). See further details on the Q&A clause.


## Review of Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 202309021-01 |Telefónica| Open | Open a PR to address [#309](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/309) |
| 20230907-10 | Telefónica, Mavenir, Orange, Vodafone| Closed | ~~To propose their initial maintainers for WebRTC subproject.~~ |**Deadline: 20th September**. |
| 20230907-09 | China Telecom| Closed | ~~To clarify the API scope with current work done by AT&T in TMF, and check whether AT&T could be a supporter of the API.~~|
| 20230907-08 | DT, KDDI, Telefónica, GSMA, Orange| Closed | ~~To propose their initial maintainers for KYC subproject **Deadline: 20th September**.~~ |
| 20230907-07 | DT, KDDI, Telefónica, GSMA, Orange| Closed | ~~To propose a new name for KYC subproject. **Deadline: 20th September**.~~  |
| 20230907-06 | China Mobile, Huawei| Closed | ~~To propose their initial maintainers for Click-to-Dial subproject. **Deadline: 20th September**..~~ |
| 20230907-05 |Ericsson| Open | To add the company names (via PR) in the 'supporters' column in [API backlog table](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md) for Click-to-Dial API, if willing to become supporter of this API. |
| 20230907-04 | Verizon | Open | To fill missing information on technical viability for [Network Insights API proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/295). |
| 20230907-03 | Meta, Ericsson | Open | To add their company names (via PR) in the 'supporters' column in [API backlog table](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md) for WebRTC API, if they want to become supporters of this API.|
| 20230907-02 | MTN | Open | To declare if they want to take [IMEI Fraud]([#285](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/285)) for approval to next TSC meeting. **Deadline: ~~14th~~ 28th September**. |
| 20230907-01 | MTN | Open | To declare if they want to take [Device Swap]([#284](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/284)) for approval to next TSC meeting. **Deadline: ~~14th~~ 28th September**. |


# Q&A
**How to add new supporters?**

If a company wants to become supporter of an API which is included in the backlog, then a delegate of this company needs to add the company's name in the 'supporters' column in the [API backlog](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md). 

**How to take an API submission for TSC approval?** 

The proccess is detailed [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/documentation/API-onboarding.md).

1. The WG chair checks that the template is duly filled in. Otherwise, the API owner is requested to provide missing information.
2. After this sanity check, each WG participant declares their support (which is also documented in the template). The more support an API proposal gets, the better (it may get more traction).
3. When the API owner considers the API proposal is in good shape to go for approval, it informs the WG chair accordingly.
4. Upon receiving this information, the WG chair merges the Pull Request into the main branch, and sends the API proposal to the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) of CAMARA. This action shall be completed at least one week prior to the TSC meeting where the API proposal will be voted upon.
 
The whole procedure (steps 1-4) should be done within 2 regular meetings of the API Backlog WG. Nonetheless, it is up to the API owner to decide if it wants to shorten or extend this time period.

**Once an API proposal is formally approved, what are the next steps?** 

Upon approval by the TSC, the following actions need to be taken:
- [API backlog action] Supporting companies to propose their initial maintainers for the subproject.
- [TSC action] upon receiving maintainers from API backlog WG, to decide to propose  additional initial maintainers. The TSC will officially nominate the (list of) initial maintainers by next TSC meeting. 
- [CAMARA admins] to create the subproject repository. 

NOTE: After the initial maintainers are nominated, the criteria for further maintainers would be three months of active contribution to the sub project. Code owners are to be decided by the maintainers within the subproject.



